how's it going everybody Jason Kate more
guitar lessons in more guitar riffs calm
in this lesson we're simply going to
talk about purchasing your first guitar
if you're a beginner guitarist or if
you're somebody looking for a guitar per
se your child or a friend or whoever
we're going to talk about some key
points on picking up a guitar and I
guess you know I I tried to think of a
lot of different points here to cover
but there's a couple things that that
immediately come to mind first of all
you know don't worry it's it's not
necessarily true in the guitar world
that the higher you pay the better
you're gonna get I mean on a
professional level yes
you know you could pay three thousand
dollars for an electric guitar and you
know and it's flawless you know it's
gonna sound great but for a beginner
guitarist you don't have to look at it
that way a $150 even a hundred dollar
guitar new even will actually do the
trick but a word of caution on that and
I'll give you an example from my own
experience my own mother when I first
wanted to play guitar you know at age 12
or whatever it was I started playing
bought me an acoustic guitar that really
wasn't a real guitar it was bought from
like a garage sale and I want to say she
paid $20 for so but but but the point is
what ended up happening with that guitar
is I couldn't even front the strings the
the the action and I'll talk about this
in other videos but basically how low
the strings set to the guitar neck were
so high that it would actually hurt my
fingers it actually almost discouraged
me from playing guitar so even though I
say you can get an affordable guitar at
a good price that's a good quality I
stress that there's a fine line how low
of quality you want to go so having said
that that brings me to my next main
point I want to talk about the most
important thing that you need to do
first before price is sit down with the
guitar at a music store and play it
because if it because if it's a guitar
that inspires you
to play it it's going to it's going to
inspire you to practice it because
guitar playing is not simply picking up
the guitar and playing it there's a lot
of practice and discipline that's going
to have to come with learning guitar so
the point is is you want something
that's going to inspire you to come back
and the analogy will not really an
analogy but the actual scenario that
happened with me
I was almost discouraged by the guitar
now my mom had the belief which a lot of
people do that well if he's serious then
we'll get a more expensive one later and
that's what I'm happening but for the
most part you don't want to go too cheap
but you also don't have to go too
expensive
now that brings me we'll start with
electric guitars for example you know
you can pick up an electric guitar off
brand brand new sometimes with the
actual amp and on a side note you still
need to sit down and play it and make
sure you like it first I would highly
recommend that but um for a hundred
hundred of $200 you can usually get
package deals and for a beginner guitar
they're usually going to do the trick
and they're they're going to have low
action on the guitar and they're gonna
actually sound pretty good decent I
should say enough to keep you inspired
to move further as far as the argument
over acoustic acoustic guitar versus an
electric guitar and an acoustic guitar I
didn't have one with me at this point
but you can see in some of my other
videos maybe I'll pull in fact that's
what I'll do I'll pull one up I'll pull
a picture of it up right here you're
looking at an acoustic guitar right here
the acoustic versus an electric it's
kind of your preference understand that
an electric is going to require more
equipment you're going to have to have a
guitar amplifier you're going to have to
have a guitar cord but the good thing
about an electric guitar for a new one
new new beginner guitars is you can turn
it down and generally you know for more
rock guitarists they're gonna want the
electric guitars for more the lead
sewing however if you're not into the
rock as much and you're playing more say
country or even just more open type
chords then the acoustic may be the
option to go to
acoustics and electrics will have
generally the same price range as far as
quality for everything I just mentioned
again the most important thing to decide
though is when you sit down are you
happy with the guitar is something that
you're starting to play that you having
fun with now if you're in a situation
where you've literally never picked up a
guitar or you're not even sure how to
even play any chords or anything yet
what you should do is go into a music
store and just try to talk with one of
the sales persons and explain to them
that hey this is my budget I'm not going
over that and this is what I want and
then they can give you some ideas
another note on that by the way music
stores at least in the past and I know
they still do it but they generally will
deal with you they are like a car lot
you don't go in and pay sticker price
you really have to go in and offer cash
or even offer any money for let's say
this latest let's say a stickers for
$349 my first words out of my mouth if I
really want that would be hey would you
take 275 for that and they may counter
and come back and say yeah well we can't
go any lower if they can't go any lower
them I know that sounds bad but walk out
go do your research online find some
more stores you have to call their bluff
to a certain extent because they will
deal with you for the most part if
you're in a situation where they just
you're not worried about saving extra 50
bucks then don't worry about it it's
cool you don't have to do that but
generally speaking you can deal and get
better deals Kraig lists are good eBay
are good and another word of caution on
this when you are buying a used guitar
that you have never seen before some of
the things that you have to watch out
for are the necks these necks will if
they're not put in proper scoring
conditions let's say they're in a
basement and then they come upstairs
where it's hot and they're exposed to
heat quickly it could crack the necks a
lot of them type of if you're buying a
guitar or anything like that from
someone that you don't know especially
eBay you really need to check their
feedback and make sure there's a return
policy because these are things that
have to look at and a crack neck would
simply be just looking at the back of
the back of the neck looking down the
neck and seeing if it's warped and if
it's got any cracks but any type of
damage you should discard that guitar
all together on the neck specifically
damage on a body is not going to be a
big deal especially for a beginner
guitar some of the another point I
wanted to make bring up as a major brand
you don't have to look for major brands
in the beginning phases it it's just not
important
just look for a guitar that's in your
price range that sounds good to you
that's that feels good to you and
actually fits your body and when I say
that you can get big guitars you can get
smaller guitars you want to make sure
it's something that you can play
comfortably trying to think of some
other things here I've covered the
cracks basically that's about it like I
said you know you don't have to have the
main brands look for something that you
like it probably the most important
thing is that you like the guitar if
you're not happy with the guitar if it
doesn't inspire you to come home and
practice then what's the purpose leaving
get in it anyway so that's some
recommendations on choosing guitar if
you have any questions on guitar ever
leave me a post contact me and I'll give
you my opinion on it see in the next
video